plugins/nf-biojava/src/docs/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

= Nextflow nf-biojava plugin

This project shows how to implement a simple Nextflow plugin named `nf-biojava` using Java instead Groovy

It provides the ability to integrate functionalities from the `biojava` project (https://biojava.org/) into
Nexflow pipelines

NOTE: THIS IS A PREVIEW TECHNOLOGY, FEATURES AND CONFIGURATION SETTINGS CAN CHANGE IN FUTURE RELEASES.

== Requirements

- java 11 or later

== Build

- Clone the repository from https://github.com/jorgeaguileraseqera/nf-biojava into a directory

- Execute into the cloned directory:

```
./gradlew build
```

== Documentation

execute into the cloned directory:

```
./gradlew asciidoctor
```

if all it's ok you can find the documentation at `plugins/nf-biojava/build/docs/asciidoc` directory

== Get started

Make sure to have Nextflow `22.10.0` or later. Add the following snippet to your `nextflow.config` file.

.nextflow.config
[source, groovy]
----
plugins {
  id 'nf-biojava@0.0.1'
}
----

The above declaration allows the use of the plugin functionalities in your Nextflow pipelines.

For example

.test.nf
[source,groovy]
----
include {
    createDNASequence;
    getSequenceForId;
} from 'plugin/nf-biojava'

println createDNASequence( path('example.dna') )

println getSequenceForId( 'Q21691' )
----


## Configuration

TBD!!!

## Available functions

This plugin adds to the Nextflow DSL the following extensions that allows performing of queries and populating database tables.

### createDNASequence

TBD!!!

### createDNASequence

TBD!!!


### getSequenceForId

TBD!!!

Commit message:

create factories methods
Signed-off-by: Jorge Aguilera <jorge.aguilera@seqera.io>

plugins/nf-biojava/src/docs/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

= Nextflow nf-biojava plugin

This project shows how to implement a simple Nextflow plugin named `nf-biojava` using Java instead Groovy

It provides the ability to integrate functionalities from the `biojava` project (https://biojava.org/) into
Nexflow pipelines

NOTE: THIS IS A PREVIEW TECHNOLOGY, FEATURES AND CONFIGURATION SETTINGS CAN CHANGE IN FUTURE RELEASES.

== Requirements

- java 11 or later

== Build

- Clone the repository from https://github.com/jorgeaguileraseqera/nf-biojava into a directory

- Execute into the cloned directory:

```
./gradlew build
```

== Documentation

execute into the cloned directory:

```
./gradlew asciidoctor
```

if all it's ok you can find the documentation at `plugins/nf-biojava/build/docs/asciidoc` directory

== Get started

Make sure to have Nextflow `22.10.0` or later. Add the following snippet to your `nextflow.config` file.

.nextflow.config
[source, groovy]
----
plugins {
  id 'nf-biojava@0.0.1'
}
----

The above declaration allows the use of the plugin functionalities in your Nextflow pipelines.

For example

.test.nf
[source,groovy]
----
include {
    createDNASequence;
    getProteinSequenceForId;
} from 'plugin/nf-biojava'

println createDNASequence( path('example.dna') )

println getProteinSequenceForId( 'Q21691' )
----


== Configuration

TBD!!!

== Available Factories

=== fromRNAFasta(path)

emit a tuple of ID,RNA

=== fromDNAFasta(path)

emit a tuple of ID,DNA

=== fromProteinFasta(path)

emit a tuple of ID,Protein

== Available functions

This plugin adds to the Nextflow DSL the following extensions that allows performing of queries and populating database tables.

=== createDNASequence

TBD!!!

=== createDNASequence

TBD!!!


=== getProteinSequenceForId

TBD!!!
